README.md, before:

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/5d665tl2a8x082be?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nathanwoulfe/nestingcontently)
[![NuGet release](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/NestingContently.Umbraco.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NestingContently.Umbraco)

# NestingContently

Depending on who you ask, a big gap in Umbraco's Nested Content property editor is the ability to disable nested items (ie, keep them in the current editor, but turn 'em off on the front end). 

There are workarounds, but for our Dear Editors, the best solution is an additional button in the header row for each nested item (Archetype fans, I see you nodding).

This editor does exactly that - adds a disable/enable toggle to the Nested Content header so your editors will forever be ... wait for it ... Nesting Contently.

Supports Umbraco v7 (Nesting Contently v1) and v8 (Nesting Contently v2). Installing the wrong version won't blow up your site, it just won't work.

## Get it
 - via Nuget => `Install-Package NestingContently.Umbraco`
 - [zipped and ready to install](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nathanwoulfe/nestingcontently/build/artifacts)

## Setup

 - Install this package (derp)
 - Create a new data type using the Nesting Contently editor
 - Add the data type to the Nested Content document type
 - Name it whatever you like, but ideally set the alias to `umbracoNaviHide` to be able to use the `.IsVisible()` extension when iterating the nested items. Using any other alias means you'll need to check the property value when rendering
 - Stun your content editors with your brilliance
 
The editor itself is not displayed when editing the nested items - it only exists to create the property on the document type. Instead, the response containing the Nested Content editor HTML is intercepted and modified to inject the new button as an AngularJs directive. 

The button is displayed in header rows for nested items containing the Nesting Contently editor, so we can have NC items with the disable/enable toggle, and others without, in the same Nested Content property. Cool, right?

Toggling the button modifies the parent's parent's parent's (maybe another parent) model value, and all is well. 

There's no need to touch any core files, so no worries with upgrade paths being borked. Some of the implementation is a little bit dirty, but this is essentially a hack anyway, so sue me.

### Extra setup bit

The above bits said, Models Builder doesn't play nice with Nesting Contently given the absence of a property value converter. Rather than adding an assembly to the package simply to deliver 8 lines of code, it's included below instead. 

Depending on your setup, this may not matter - using `umbracoNaviHide` and `.IsVisible()` will work fine without the converter - `.IsVisible()` explicitly uses Umbraco's built-in boolean converter, and is nicely declarative so makes your code more readable.

Add this somewhere to your solution to keep Models Builder happy:

```csharp
[PropertyValueType(typeof(bool))]
[PropertyValueCache(PropertyCacheValue.All, PropertyCacheLevel.Content)]
public class NestingContentlyValueConverter : Umbraco.Core.PropertyEditors.ValueConverters.YesNoValueConverter
{
    public override bool IsConverter(PublishedPropertyType propertyType)
    {
        return propertyType.PropertyEditorAlias == "NestingContently";
    }
}    
```

## Drama Cabana

It's a long read, but [this thread](http://issues.umbraco.org/issue/U4-10422) provides some background context around why this feature is (or isn't, depending on your persective) needed in the core.

It's also an interesting insight into product and community management, contributing to OSS and the investment plenty of people have in the Umbraco ecosystem.

Commit message:

Simplify build system and add Property Value Converters for Umbraco 8.1.0

README.md, after:

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/5d665tl2a8x082be?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nathanwoulfe/nestingcontently)
[![NuGet release](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/NestingContently.Umbraco.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/NestingContently.Umbraco)

# NestingContently

Depending on who you ask, a big gap in Umbraco's Nested Content property editor is the ability to disable nested items (ie, keep them in the current editor, but turn 'em off on the front end). 

There are workarounds, but for our Dear Editors, the best solution is an additional button in the header row for each nested item (Archetype fans, I see you nodding).

This editor does exactly that - adds a disable/enable toggle to the Nested Content (and Block List, for those playing on Umbraco 8.7+) header so your editors will forever be ... wait for it ... Nesting Contently.

Supports Umbraco v7 (Nesting Contently v1) and v8 (Nesting Contently v2+). Installing the wrong version won't blow up your site, it just won't work.

## Now with extra-juicy Property Value Converters
Thanks entirely to work by Ronald Barendse, Nesting Contently now ships with three PVCs to manage conversions for the core Nesting Contently editor, and for filtering Nested Content and Block List editors.

While the above says 'ships with' it's much more a case of ships as a supporting package. Install that bundle of awesome via NuGet => `install-package NestingContently.Umbraco.ValueConverters`.

## Introducing Nesting Contently III - with a vengeance
Umbraco 8.7 introduces the Block List editor, which takes all the best bits of Nested Content, the Grid, Doc Type Grid Editor and others, mixes in a bit of unicorn snot to stick it all together and creates a new editing paradigm. Only thing missing? A native disable button for blocks.

Fear not! Nesting Contently III got your back, friend. NC III works its magic on the Block List, to make disabling blocks as easy as something really easy. NC III also supports nested Nested Content, if you're into that kinda thing. Probably supports nested nested Nested Content too, you pervert.

NC III is a big old change of approach with respect to updating model values - it's a lot simpler, to better work with (around?) Nested Content's interesting (odd?) approach to model syncing. For Block List, it's super straight forward, which is nice, and allows NC III to support both editors from the same implementation.

## Get it
 - via Nuget => `Install-Package NestingContently.Umbraco`
 - [zipped and ready to install](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nathanwoulfe/nestingcontently/build/artifacts)

## Setup

 - Install this package (derp)
 - Create a new data type using the Nesting Contently editor
 - Add the data type to the Nested Content document type
 - Name it whatever you like, but ideally set the alias to `umbracoNaviHide` to be able to use the `.IsVisible()` extension when iterating the nested items. Using any other alias means you'll need to check the property value when rendering
 - Stun your content editors with your brilliance
 
The editor itself is not displayed when editing the nested items - it only exists to create the property on the document type. 

The button is displayed in header rows for nested items containing the Nesting Contently editor, so we can have items with the disable/enable toggle, and others without, in the same Nested Content / Block List property. Cool, right?

Toggling the button modifies the parent's parent's parent's (maybe another parent) model value, and all is well. 

There's no need to touch any core files, so no worries with upgrade paths being borked. Some of the implementation is a little bit dirty, but this is essentially a hack anyway, so sue me (don't though).

### Extra setup bit

The above bits said, Models Builder doesn't play nice with Nesting Contently given the absence of a property value converter. Rather than adding an assembly to the package simply to deliver 8 lines of code, it's included below instead. 

Depending on your setup, this may not matter - using `umbracoNaviHide` and `.IsVisible()` will work fine without the converter - `.IsVisible()` explicitly uses Umbraco's built-in boolean converter, and is nicely declarative so makes your code more readable.

Add this somewhere to your solution to keep Models Builder happy (for v7, and v8, respectively):

```csharp
[PropertyValueType(typeof(bool))]
[PropertyValueCache(PropertyCacheValue.All, PropertyCacheLevel.Content)]
public class NestingContentlyValueConverter : Umbraco.Core.PropertyEditors.ValueConverters.YesNoValueConverter
{
    public override bool IsConverter(PublishedPropertyType propertyType)
    {
        return propertyType.PropertyEditorAlias == "NestingContently";
    }
}    
```

```csharp
using Umbraco.Core.Models.PublishedContent;

public class NestingContentlyValueConverter : Umbraco.Core.PropertyEditors.ValueConverters.YesNoValueConverter
{
   public override bool IsConverter(IPublishedPropertyType propertyType)
      => propertyType.EditorAlias == "NestingContently";
}
```

## Drama Cabana

It's a long read, but [this thread](http://issues.umbraco.org/issue/U4-10422) provides some background context around why this feature is (or isn't, depending on your persective) needed in the core.

It's also an interesting insight into product and community management, contributing to OSS and the investment plenty of people have in the Umbraco ecosystem.

There may or may not be a similar thread debating the merits of a disable button in the Block List, but don't waste your time debating it, just install this bad boy and get on with your day.
